# Aerospace Bearing - Machine Learning (CS-433)
The repository contains all the material used to carry out the Machine Learning (CS-433) Project 2 and it is organized as follows:
 - useful documentation and references consulted during the project (`documentation` folder)
 - the code needed to implement linear regression on the aerodynamic force (`linear regression` folder)
 - the code needed to implement a Fully Connected Forward Neural Network on the aerodynamic force (`fnn` folder)
 - the code needed to implement a Convolutional Neural Network on the aerodynamic force (`cnn` folder)
 
# Team
This project is executed by the team GiFT with the following members:

Girolamo Vurro: [@girolamovurro14](https://github.com/girolamovurro14)

Francesca Venturi: [@francescaventurigit](https://github.com/francescaventurigit)

Tommaso Farnararo: @tommasofarnararo

It is supervised by the Post-doc Dimitri Maurice Goutaudier and the PhD students Matteo Raviola and Andrea Zanoni, from the Scientific Computing and Uncertainty Quantification (CSQI) Laboratory, led by Professor Fabio Nobile.


# Project structure

## Presentation
The dataset we work on is made up of 500 trajectories of the center of gravity of the AeroSpace Bearing, where the aerodynamic force is applied, and every trajectory is characterized by 2001 time instants, whose temporal distance is uniform. These data are represented by means of two 500x2001 matrices, namely the X-coordinates and Y-coordinates (`X.csv` and `Y.csv`) and are used to predict the corresponding aerodynamic force along x-direction and y-direction (`FX.csv` and `FY.csv`), equally represented as matrices 500x2001. The project aims at studying and implementing different regression tecniques, in order to perform reliable predictions on the aerodynamic force in an aerospace bearing structure.

## Documentation
The documentation has been provided by the supervisors of the project, after a superficial, but still straightforward, explanation of the physical structure we deal with: the Aerospace Bearing. All the references are in the `documentation` folder.

## Linear Regression
The preliminary part of the project consist of performing linear regression to predict the forces. As expected, this model results in being too simple to catch the non-linear trend of both the trajectory and the forces. In particular, two different models are implemented and are respectively `main_autoreg_true.py` and `main_dist_rot.py`. 

## Forward Neural Network
In addition to Logaritmic and Cosine tranforms, an optimal-degree polynomial expansion of the dataset is performed, too.

## Convolutional Neural Network
All the regression algorithms studied so far during the course are implemented (`implementations.py`): Gradient Descent, Stochastic Gradient Descent, Least Squares, Ridge Regression, Logistic Regression with Gradient Descent (penalized and non-penalized).

## Envirnoment
The project is developed and tested with `python3.8.10`. The required library for running the models and training is `numpy` and `pytorch`. The library for visualization are `maptplotlib` and `seaborn`. As regards the linear regression the Python IDE used is `Spyder`, while for neural networks (both forward and convolutional) JupyterLab is more appropriate.

## Results
Results to predict the test datasets are generated by running the `run.py` script and consequently saved in `finalsubmission.csv`. The latter gives an accuracy of 0.833.
